Is it possible to use one intro format
to blow up your channel? I believe the
answer is yes. So, in this video, I'm
going to show you the exact intro
structure that's responsible for
millions of views for my clients. And
you're going to like it because it's
actually simpler than what most creators
are doing and way easier to implement,
too. I'm Brian, and I've written scripts
and grown YouTube channels for some of
the biggest educational channels all
across YouTube. Here's a real challenge
with writing intros. It's not that you
don't know what to say. You're a
beautiful human being with many original
thoughts, I'm sure, and you likely
already have an idea of what you're
going to talk about in your video. The
real problem is that you don't know what
not to say. With any given video title,
you can write it a million different
ways. For example, with this video
title, copy this video intro. It'll blow
up your channel. I could start the video
with either a story about how I
discovered this, statistics about intro
performance, my credentials and client
results, the problem with current intro
methods, a bold promise about what
you'll learn, context about why intros
matter, a preview of the framework I'll
teach, or a question hook. And then
let's say out of all of these, I pick a
question hook. There are 20 different
ways that I can ask a question. All of
these intros seem reasonable, and none
of them are entirely wrong. But the
problem starts if I include all of them
because my intro becomes then a
threeminute ramble that loses viewers
before I even get to the good stuff. And
if I pick the wrong element, I'm
absolutely cooked because I edited the
video, I published the video, and I
can't change the intro like I can change
the title and thumbnail. Sometimes it
feels like complete guesswork if you
don't have the right intro for me. So,
how do I know which elements to include
and which to cut out? And this all comes
down to understanding one simple concept
that separates amateur intros from
professional ones. And that is
understanding nice to know versus need
to know information. Every piece of
information in your script can be
categorized into nice to know versus
need to know. Nice to know information
is everything that's interesting but not
essential for the viewer. So this is
background context, extra credentials,
detailed explanations, side stories,
additional benefits, etc., etc. And need
to know information is what the viewer
absolutely must understand to stay
engaged and get value from your video.
What most creators will do is pack their
intros with nice to know information
because it feels more complete, more
professional, and more thorough. But
viewers don't care about complete. They
care about relevant. They want to know
when they watch the video, it's actually
relevant to them and they will get
exactly what they were promised when
they clicked on the video. They don't
actually care about all the
miscellaneous nice to know information.
Let me ask you this. What is the goal of
the title and thumbnail? Well, it's to
get people to click. Duh. Literally,
anyone could have told you that. But
what is the goal of the first sentence
of your intro? It's to get people to
watch the second sentence. And the
second sentence should get them to watch
the third sentence. And the third
sentence should get them to watch the
fourth. And so on and so forth. This
might seem super obvious, but most
people don't think about writing your
intros like taking the viewer down a
sentence by sentence journey. Most
people never stop to ask what is the
need to know versus nice to know
information that you're going to give
the viewer. When someone clicks on your
video, their brain is immediately asking
three specific questions in the first 30
seconds. Number one is can I trust this
person aka the credibility. Number two
is am I in the right place? So that's
the context. And number three is what
will I get from watching this video? Aka
the value. Answer these three questions
efficiently and you'll keep the viewer
watching. But if you overwhelm them with
nice to know information, they will
click away and your video will go into
depths of the lost algorithm. The magic
happens when you give them exactly what
they need to know. Nothing more, nothing
less. Once again, need to know, not nice
to know. So, at this point, we've
established that our intro only wants to
give need to know information. But how
do we structure it for maximum
retention? Every high-erforming intro
follows this exact sequence. And part
one starts with the need to know
credibility. So this section isn't about
listing every achievement that you have.
It's about establishing what I call the
minimum viable credibility for this
specific video. So for this video that
you're watching, I don't need to mention
every client or every result. I just
mentioned, hey, I'm Brian and I've
written scripts for some of the biggest
educational channels on YouTube. That's
it. It answers the can I trust this
person without wasting any time or
wasting it on too many words. Now, you
don't want to give every single line of
credibility that you have. So, you could
be a best-selling author. You could sell
millions of dollars in XYZ product. But
if you're making a video on
productivity, no one will care about all
of those credentials. Instead, if you
talk about how you work 3 hours a day
and still make millions of dollars,
that's when people's ears will perk up
and people will care. Once again, pick
the credibility that relates most to the
title of the video. Let me give you
another example. If your video is
titled, "How to get your first 1,000
subscribers in 30 days," a common
mistake is to mention your business
revenue generated from YouTube, but
that's not related at all. Instead, the
title focuses on getting subscribers.
So, you want to mention your subscriber
growth or your client results with
subscriber growth. The credibility that
you set must create a direct line
between your authority and the video's
promise because irrelevant credibility
is just noise that wastes precious
seconds and confuses viewers about why
they should listen to you. And this
brings us to part two, which is the need
to know context. This context bridges
from your title and thumbnail to your
content. It confirms to the viewer that
they're in the right place. So once
again, if we look at the script of this
video, I say, "So in this video, I'm
going to show you the exact intro
structure that's responsible for
millions of views and thousands of new
customers." Notice how I don't mention
how intros matter or giving background
on the problem. The viewer already knows
that intros are important and that's why
they clicked on this video and that's
why you clicked on this video. This is
where most creators go wrong. They think
they need to educate viewers on why the
topic matters. But your title and
thumbnail already did that job. If
someone clicked on copy this video
intro, it'll blow up your channel. They
already believe that intros are
important. So, you shouldn't waste time
convincing your viewers of something
they already believe in. Instead, your
context should feel like a direct
continuation of your title. It should
feel like you're picking up exactly
where your packaging left off. Once
again, the packaging already establishes
some underlying assumptions, and all you
have to do is meet the viewer where
they're at knowledge-wise. Your need to
know context should answer the question,
what specifically am I about to get, not
why should I care about this topic? And
once you've established the context,
that brings us to part three, which is
giving the need to know value. And this
is your promise of what the viewer will
get if they stay till the end. And for
this specific section, be compelling,
but don't oversell. Once again, if you
look back at this script, I say and
you're going to like it because it's
actually simpler than what most creators
are doing and way easier to implement,
too. This manages expectations while
creating anticipation for the viewer.
Your value promise needs to address the
viewer's biggest concern about consuming
your content. For educational content,
the biggest concerns are usually number
one, would this be too complicated for
me? Number two, would this take too long
to implement? or number three, would
actually work for me? Or number four, is
this just recycled advice? Your value
promise should preemptively address
whichever concern is most relevant to
your specific video. The value promise
isn't just about what the viewer will
learn. It's about removing their
resistance to learning so that they'll
be willing to give you 10 minutes of
watch time in exchange for the
information that you're giving them. I
want you to notice how the need to know
credibility, context, and value work
together to create a beautifully crafted
intro. The credibility answers, can I
trust this person? The context answers,
am I in the right place? And then the
value answers, what will I get and why
should I care? And when you nail all
three in under 30 seconds total, you
create what I call frictionless
engagement, which essentially means that
the viewer stops evaluating whether to
watch and starts anticipating what comes
next. And that's when you know you've
hooked them. Let me show you this
framework in action with a hook that got
over 900,000 views for Jordan Welch with
1.8 million subscribers in his video
titled Getting Rich is Easy. Actually,
let's break this down line by line so
you know exactly how I applied it. for
the need to know credibility. It says,
>> "And look, I started doing this a few
years ago when I was completely broke.
And today, even after making over $10
million online, this
>> the need to know context says,
>> what if I told you that getting richer
than 99% of people is actually easier
than you think?" And
>> and the need to know value is
>> well, if you follow the strategy I'm
about to share with you in this video, I
promise you will make more progress in
one year than most people will in a
lifetime. And look,
>> you can see how each part serves its
specific function without wasting a
single word. Three sentences and then
you go straight into the meat and bones
of the content. Not a full one to two to
three minute rant. The intro should be
complete within 30 to 45 seconds. Here's
how to implement this need to know
information framework, which starts with
step one, which is brain dumping
everything. This is what you should do
now. Take out a Google doc and write
down everything you could possibly
include in your intro based on the title
and based on the script that you've
written. Don't filter anything yet. just
brain dump. So, for example, if I'm
making a video titled How to Get 1,000
subscribers in 30 days, my brain dump
might look something like, and this will
be messy. I've grown channels from zero
to 100K subscribers. I've worked with 40
plus educational channels. Subscriber
growth has changed in 2025. Most people
focus on the wrong metrics. The YouTube
algorithm prioritizes watch time. I'll
show you my five-step framework. This
works for any niche. Or I could also
say, you don't need expensive equipment.
I started with zero subscribers, too. my
clients have gained millions of
subscribers combined and this will take
you 30 days to implement or you'll learn
my exact posting strategy or I'll show
you my case studies. Literally write
down everything, every credential, every
benefit, every piece of context that you
think might be relevant for the viewer
based on what you're going to teach
them. Once again, this might be a messy
process, but you want to lay down all
the tools that you might use so that you
can write a better intro. Which brings
us to step two, which is to categorize
ruthlessly. Now you want to sort each
element into two main columns. Nice to
know versus need to know. So nice to
know I could say is the YouTube
algorithm prioritizes watch time because
the viewer already knows this. So it
might be nice to know or most people
focus on the wrong metrics. I would
consider this to be too vague. So it's
under nice to know. Or you don't need
expensive camera equipment. It's not
directly related to subscriber growth.
So nice to know. Again, subscriber
growth has changed in 2025. Once again,
this is background context that the
viewers doesn't need to know up front.
So, I would categorize all of that into
nice to know. Now, as for need to know
information, I'm going to put I've grown
channels from 0 to 100,000 subscribers
because this is my credibility or I'll
show you my five-step framework, which
is exactly what the viewer will get.
This will take 30 days to implement.
This one kind of has nuance to it, but
it manages expectations because you said
how to get 1,000 subscribers in 30 days.
So, I'm actually validating the click
here. Plus, people have a time objection
when it relates to, hey, how long will
it take for me to get my first 10,000
subscribers? So, it's important to
manage the expectation with this
specific line. And then you can kind of
move on to my clients have gained
millions of subscribers combined, which
is even more proof that it works. So, it
makes it more likely for the viewer to
believe that the information that you're
going to give is actually going to work
out for them. And now that you have
everything set up in two columns, step
three is to apply the three question
filter. For each need to know element,
ask yourself these three questions.
Question one, does this establish
credibility for this video? So saying,
I've grown channels from zero to 100k
subscribers is a big yes because it's
directly relevant to subscriber growth.
Whereas saying something like, I've
walked to 40 plus educational channels,
is too vague and doesn't specify
subscriber results. So it's not good
credibility. And then you want to ask
yourself question two, which is, does
this confirm that they're in the right
place? So saying something like, "I'll
show you my five-step framework for
getting 1,000 subscribers." Yes, because
it immediately matches the title
promise. But if you say something like,
"You'll learn my exact posting
strategy." That's a big no because it's
too specific and it's likely within the
body content. So it's kind of like a
teaser, but it doesn't really work given
the title. And question three you want
to ask yourself is, does this promise
specific value? So once again, when I
say this will take you 30 days to
implement, that is a big yes because it
addresses the time concern of the viewer
or saying my clients have gained
millions of subscribers combined. That
is also a big yes because it proves that
this works for others. But if you say
something like this works for any niche,
it's kind of nice to know but not
essential information, right? If you
really need to add it, then you kind of
add it, but it's not essential
information to make the content strong.
Which brings us to the last and final
step, which is to build your final
intro. So take only the elements that
passed all three questions and arrange
them in order. So the credibility will
be I've grown channels from zero to
100,000 subscribers. And then you give
the context which says in this video
I'll show you my five-step framework for
getting a,000 subscribers. And then the
value says and you'll like it because my
clients have gained millions of
subscribers using this exact process and
you can implement it in just 30 days.
And you'll kind of notice when you're
writing your intros, sometimes it
doesn't make sense to start with the
credibility. Maybe the credibility is
third line and then you put the promise
of the value all the way at the start.
But as long as your intro has all of
these three components, you can order
them in whatever way that you want.
Really, you just want to make sure that
it makes sense for the viewer and each
line trickles down to the next as
seamlessly and as easily as possible and
is easy for the viewer to follow. And
this last step, it's kind of like a
Build-A-Bear, right? You can have
whatever different colors of the
Build-A-Bear that you want, but the
Build-A-Bear still has to have a head on
the head and the body and arms on the
body and then the legs on the leg part,
right? It still has to look like a bear.
You don't want to have the legs on the
head. That wouldn't really make sense
and that would mean that your intro just
doesn't flow easily for the viewer to
understand. If you want this specific
intro writing framework, I can put all
of this into a PDF and send it right
over to you. I'll include intro writing
checklist and this very template. All
you need to do is click the link in the
description below. But wait, there's
something that I didn't tell you. Intros
are just one part of the entire script
writing process. Understanding how to
write the meat and bones of the content
is actually equally important if you
want to build a cult-like audience. So,
click on this video over here to watch
my full YouTube script writing course.
I'm confident that it'll be valuable for
you. Thanks for watching and I'll see
you in the next one.